there is oh my god is he trying to
frighten us off doing that John he
approached too close that's what he's
gonna do all right I guess what's so
incredible is that the whole thing works
and we've got a bear in this this den
that we've set and I've read books that
done all my research but but then it
actually works and I can now see it for
myself but we've got a bear in there and
I think that swaps it's just so
extraordinary it's amazing I'm so lucky
now John must get close enough to
administer a tranquilizer the leg snare
allows the bear to move in a 6 foot
radius hopefully it won't snap
easy now just real quiet even though the
syringe is on the end of a long pole
rather him than me
okay I got him at 10 o'clock straight up
it's beginning the injection takes takes
hold it's just beginning to you'll see
him slump and what he's doing right now
sure he's not pretending job well that's
easy to test about ready to go
now he's about I'd say about six in the
wild bears can live to the age of thirty
got a lovely coat they pretty
it's lovely soft isn't it a big teddy
bear
it's in good shape
did you say yeah it's a nice shape mr.
bear feel it's huge paw and these legs
you know which you can detect beginning
to grow thanks Jon Hobart in the little
male cub
that's D'Arnot Sully's but to be able to
feel a fully grown male bear like this
is quite an extraordinary thing
lazy big powerful job the condition and
size of this fare will be used for
research into the ongoing study of the
bear populations with males weighing up
to 300 pounds I bagged the easy job
just off 175 it's about 1 165 13 will
take 20 to 23
and it's caught by a left front foot
warm smells of like a warm piney woody
smell but just cozy really it's like how
you'd expected there to be my tags are
fixed to his ear so he can be recognized
in the future I feel so privileged to be
able to help Amanda Burton bear
biologist I like the sound of that
you